SOURCE RECORD
Publisher: CropLife Europe (industry association), comment on the Commission's public consultation on prohibiting the production of hazardous chemicals for export
URL: https://croplifeeurope.eu/croplife-europes-comment-on-the-for-prohibiting-the-production-of-hazardous-chemicals-for-export/
Retrieved: 2026-09-20 by raw HTTP fetch, tags stripped. Full page text follows.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 CropLife Europe's comment on the PC for prohibiting the production of hazardous chemicals for export - CropLife Europe Skip to main content Hit enter to search or ESC to close Search Close Search search Menu Who We Are Team Network Statutes Careers What We Do Farmers’ Toolbox Our Contribution News & Views News Events Commitments Annual Reviews Library Member Login x-twitter facebook linkedin youtube search Public Statements CropLife Europe’s comment on the PC for prohibiting the production of hazardous chemicals for export By client May 8, 2023 February 19th, 2024 No Comments On the 8th of May 2023 European Commission launched a public consultation on prohibiting the production of hazardous chemicals for export. Responding to the publication: “ CropLife Europe supports the ambitious commitment of the European Commission and its Chemicals Strategy for Sustainability (CSS) to protect human health and the environment. As an innovative industry that supports farmers progress towards a more sustainable EU food production, we are dedicated to increasing the sustainability of our solutions. The CSS sets out to achieve a big transformation the EU will see under the Green Deal. We recognise the Commission’s underlying concern that certain substances banned for use as pesticides in Europe are exported to other parts of the world. Many of the substances which would be captured by such a ban are exported to fulfil important and specific needs of farmers in other parts of the world. Different regions have different needs – the agronomic needs and climatic conditions vary by region and are considered in the country and region-specific registration process. In addition, some of these substances are registered and used in third countries for other important societal reasons, like vector control, other than crop protection. Simply banning manufacturing for export of these substances will not have the desired outcome. Doing so would result in losing a valuable opportunity for the EU to positively influence how pesticides are used in other parts of the world. CropLife therefore encourages the EU to use its world leading influence to show how best practices of safety, risk assessment of chemical products and transparency can better protect people and the environment. Banning chemical/pesticide exports from the EU would increase the risk of illegal and counterfeit pesticides being used in other parts of the world, compromise EU competitiveness and investment in innovation in the sector. Such a ban would likely result in manufacturing being exported from Europe to other regions in the world, where the EU would have no opportunity to lead by example. The public consultation, offers an important opportunity for CropLife Europe and its membership to contribute with its expert perspective, resulting from many years of practical experience. Our sector will continue to be a partner in the green and digital transformation of European agriculture. We look forward to contributing to the public consultation and continuing dialogue with the European Commission, civil society and all interested parties, and we remain committed to finding a solution which is acceptable to all parties, including farmers. “ Biopesticides Circular Economy counterfeit Digital and precision agriculture ECJ Environmental Safety European Court of Justice Green Deal Human Health illegal pesticides interview opinion pesticides Plant biotechnology protective equipment residues romania Safe and sustainable use of pesticides SUR targets The registration and placement of pesticides and biopesticides on the EU market trade transition TTIP urls Previous Post CropLife Europe responds to questions from Lighthouse Reports Next Post CropLife Europe's comment on the review of the Bee Guidance document Comments are closed. --> Contact Us CropLife Europe, aisbl Rue Guimard 9, 1040 Brussels croplife@croplifeeurope.eu Transparency Policy Privacy Policy Copyright Manage Cookie Consent © 2026 CropLife Europe. x-twitter facebook linkedin youtube Close Menu Who We Are Team Network Statutes Careers What We Do Farmers’ Toolbox Our Contribution News & Views News Events Commitments Annual Reviews Library Member Login x-twitter facebook linkedin youtube We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All No thanks, only essential cookies Manage Cookie Consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously. Cookie Duration Description cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics". cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional". cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary". cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other. cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance". viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. Functional Functional Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. Performance Performance Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. Analytics Analytics Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc. Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. Others Others Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. SAVE & ACCEPT 
